README.md, before:

# pyd2b2 - Python Docker Database Backup

[
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic&sort=date)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/foorschtbar/pyd2b2)

[
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/foorschtbar/pyd2b2/Build%20Docker%20Images?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
](https://github.com/foorschtbar/pyd2b2)


**Py**thon **D**ocker **D**ata**b**ase **B**ackup is a dockerized service to automatically backup all of your database containers.

Docker Image: `foorschtbar/pyd2b2`

## Service Configuration

Configure the backup service by specifying environment variables:

Name | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`TZ` | `UTC` | Time zone for schedule and times in log messages
`SCHEDULE` | (none) | Backup interval in [cron like format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). If _empty_ or _not set_, the cycle runs only once (one-time backup).
`SUCCESS_URL` | (none) | A url who called after every successfull backup cycle
`HC_UUID`  | (none) | Insert a [HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io/) UUID for monitoring
`HC_PING_URL`  | `https://hc-ping.com/` | [HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io/) Ping Server URL if you run your own server
`DEBUG` | `false` | Increased output
`DUMP_UID` | `-1` | UID of dump files. `-1` means default (docker executing user)
`DUMP_GID` | `-1` | GID of dump files. `-1` means default (docker executing user)
`HELPER_NETWORK_NAME` | `pyd2b2-helpernet` | Name of the temporary created network that pyd2b2 uses to connect to containers

You can also define global default values for all container specific labels. Do this by prepending the label name by `GLOBAL_`. For example, to provide a default username, you can set a default value for `foorschtbar.pyd2b2.username` by specifying the environment variable `GLOBAL_USERNAME`. See next chapter for reference.

## Database Configuration

Configure each database container by specifying labels. Every label must be prefixed by `foorschtbar.pyd2b2.`:

Name | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`enable` | `false` | Enable backup for this container
`type` | `auto` | Specify type of database. Possible values: `auto, mysql, mariadb, postgres`. Auto tries to get the type from the image name (for specific well known images)
`username` | `root` | Login user
`password` | (none) | Login password
`port` | `auto` | Port (inside container). Possible values: `auto` or a valid port number. Auto gets the default port corresponding to the type.
`compress` | `false` | Compress SQL Dump with gzip
`encryption_passphrase` | _empty_ | A passphrase to encrypt the backup files. No encryption if empty.

## Example

Example docker-compose.yml:

```yml
version: "3"

services:
  db-backup: # backup service
    image: foorschtbar/pyd2b2
    environment:
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin
      - SCHEDULE=0 */12 * * *
      - GLOBAL_USERNAME=root
      - GLOBAL_ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE=secret-password
      - HC_UUID=aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-eeeeeeeeeeee
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock

  database1: # well known database image
    image: mariadb:latest
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret-password
    labels:
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.enable=true

  database2: # custom database image
    image: user/my-database:latest
    environment:
      - DB_PASSWORD=secret-password
    labels:
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.enable=true
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.type=postgres
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.password=other-password
```

## Credits

Forked from [jan-di/docker-database-backup](https://github.com/jan-di/docker-database-backup)
Inspired by [kibatic/docker-mysql-backup](https://github.com/kibatic/docker-mysql-backup)

Commit message:

Backup cleanup - Implemented feature to delete old backups (older than x days, but keep at least x files) - Fixed HealthChecks failed url - Updated README

README.md, after:

# pyd2b2 - Python Docker Database Backup

[
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic&sort=date)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/foorschtbar/pyd2b2)

[
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/foorschtbar/pyd2b2/Build%20Docker%20Images?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
  ![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/foorschtbar/pyd2b2?style=plastic)
](https://github.com/foorschtbar/pyd2b2)


**Py**thon **D**ocker **D**ata**b**ase **B**ackup is a dockerized service to automatically backup all of your database containers.

Docker Image: `foorschtbar/pyd2b2`

## Service Configuration

Configure the backup service by specifying environment variables:

Name | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`TZ` | `UTC` | Time zone for schedule and times in log messages
`SCHEDULE` | (none) | Backup interval in [cron like format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). If _empty_ or _not set_, the cycle runs only once (one-time backup).
`SUCCESS_URL` | (none) | A url who called after every successfull backup cycle
`HC_UUID`  | (none) | Insert a [HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io/) UUID for monitoring
`HC_PING_URL`  | `https://hc-ping.com/` | [HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io/) Ping Server URL if you run your own server
`DEBUG` | `false` | Increased output
`DUMP_UID` | `-1` | UID of dump files. `-1` means default (docker executing user)
`DUMP_GID` | `-1` | GID of dump files. `-1` means default (docker executing user)
`DUMP_DIR` | `/dumps` | Folder where database dumps are saved
`DELETE_DAYS` | `14` | Dump files older than this number of days should be deleted 
`KEEP_MIN` | `20` | Number of dump files to keep for each container at least
`HELPER_NETWORK_NAME` | `pyd2b2-helpernet` | Name of the temporary created network that pyd2b2 uses to connect to containers

You can also define global default values for all container specific labels. Do this by prepending the label name by `GLOBAL_`. For example, to provide a default username, you can set a default value for `foorschtbar.pyd2b2.username` by specifying the environment variable `GLOBAL_USERNAME`. See next chapter for reference.

## Database Configuration

Configure each database container by specifying labels. Every label must be prefixed by `foorschtbar.pyd2b2.`:

Name | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`enable` | `false` | Enable backup for this container
`type` | `auto` | Specify type of database. Possible values: `auto, mysql, mariadb, postgres`. Auto tries to get the type from the image name (for specific well known images)
`username` | `root` | Login user
`password` | (none) | Login password
`port` | `auto` | Port (inside container). Possible values: `auto` or a valid port number. Auto gets the default port corresponding to the type.
`compress` | `true` | Compress SQL Dump with gzip
`encryption_passphrase` | _empty_ | A passphrase to encrypt the backup files. No encryption if empty.

## Example

Example docker-compose.yml:

```yml
version: "3"

services:
  db-backup: # backup service
    image: foorschtbar/pyd2b2
    environment:
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin
      - SCHEDULE=0 */12 * * *
      - GLOBAL_USERNAME=root
      - GLOBAL_ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE=secret-password
      - HC_UUID=aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-eeeeeeeeeeee
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock

  database1: # well known database image
    image: mariadb:latest
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret-password
    labels:
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.enable=true

  database2: # custom database image
    image: user/my-database:latest
    environment:
      - DB_PASSWORD=secret-password
    labels:
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.enable=true
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.type=postgres
      - foorschtbar.pyd2b2.password=other-password
```

## Credits

Forked from [jan-di/docker-database-backup](https://github.com/jan-di/docker-database-backup)
Inspired by [kibatic/docker-mysql-backup](https://github.com/kibatic/docker-mysql-backup)
